ODROID to MATLAB Stream
=====


Required:
* ODROID with OpenCV installed.
* Computer with OpenCV installed in default locations.
* MATLAB with associated compiler e.g. XCode(Mac OS)/Visual Studio or Microsoft SDK (for Windows)
* WiFi network (Access Point)
* [Streaming ODROID application + MATLAB receiving application](https://github.com/mzahana/Image_Live_Stream)

## ODROID setup
-----

* Setup OpenCV
* Setup streaming application

### Setup OpenCV
^^^^^

* Make sure that your odroid is connected to internet.
* Open a terminal window, and run the follwoing command,

```sh
$ sudo apt-get -y install libopencv-dev
$ sudo apt-get -y install build-essential cmake git libgtk2.0-dev pkg-config libavcodec-dev libavformat-dev libswscale-dev python-dev python-numpy libtbb2 libtbb-dev libjpeg-dev libpng-dev libtiff-dev libjasper-dev libdc1394-22-dev
```

### Setup streaming app
^^^^

* create a clean directory and navigate to it e.g.
```sh
$ cd ~/Desktop
$ mkdir imgstream
$ cd imgstream
```
* clone the streaming app from Github
```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/mzahana/Image_Live_Stream.git
$ cd Image_Live_Stream
```
* navigate to the `stream_cpp` folder, and compile the app
```sh
$ cd opencv_stream/stream_cpp
$ cmake . & make
```
if all goes well, then two executable files should be generated: `sender` and `receiver`. Otherwise, make sure that you installed OpenCV properly in the default locations.

* To stream images over network, use the `sender` app after you connect a camera to ODROID. To use the `sender` app, use the following command in a terminal, inside the `stream_cpp` folder,
```sh
$ ./sender 192.168.1.100 10000
```
where `192.168.1.100` is the IP of machine running MATLAB (the host machine) (which should be on the same network as the ODROID's). `10000` is the port that MATLAB is listening on. Use appropriate IP and port that match the host ones.

## MATLAB setup
-----

### On MAC OS
^^^^^^
* Make sure that you installed XCode on your Mac OS (Google it).
* Make sure that you associat your MATLAB with XCode compiler (Google it). Run `mex -setup` in MATLAB command line for more information.
* Navigate to the `Image_Live_Stream` folder that you  downloaded from Github.

run the `setup.m` file
```matlab
>> setup
```

If all goes well, you are ready to receive live stream of images from ODROID.
* Look at the `testScript.m` file to see how you can use the *ImgStream* class to establish the connection, and receive image data.

### On Windows
^^^^^

* Make sure that you install OpenCV 2.4.13 on your Windows. Follow [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tHX3MLzwF6Q). It is assumed that you installed the opencv folder in `C:\`
* Make sure that your MATLAB is associated with compiler. Run `mex -setup` in MATLAB command line for more information.
* In MATLAB, run the `setup.m` file.

If all goes well, you are ready to receive image stream. Look at the test script to get familiar on how to use the *ImgStream* Class.